# kickstarter-analysis

## Louise wanted to know how different campaigns fared in relation to their launch dates and their funding goals.We are making it easier for her to see the information she desires.

### Analysis and Challenges:
>First I created a pivot table to more easily see the information when basing success off of launch date. I filtered the pivot table based on "Parent Category" and "Years." I then filtered the column labels to show only "successful," "failed," and "canceled." After this I filtered the "Parent Category" to show only the data for "theater." I then sorted the campaign outcomes in descending order so "successful" is first. After all this I put it into a dotted line chart, this would make the data much easier and faster to absorb. This was the easiest part of the process.

>I then had to make an outcomes based on goals chart, and this is where I struggled a tad. The chart required data that would come from a =COUNTIF() statement, something I had not learned in any module, and was only very briefly touched on in class. I could figure out which criteria ranges I needed to insert up to a certain point, and then I got confused about which others I needed to add. For this I had several trials and errors, and it was the main reason I had to turn my assignment in late. I had asked in office hours and gotten some help, but I also needed to contact ASKCBS for additional help. It is with their help I understand that, for the number successful at least, we were assigning F, using D to filter our data, and then using R to make sure it is only plays as requested. This allowed me to understand how to do all the other outcomes. And from what I can see the most successful plays were those that had a goal of less and 1k, and those that failed the most were those with a goal of 50k or more.

### Results
> I can draw from the theater outcomes based on launch date chart that the most successful plays were those that launched in May, and the most failed plays launched in both May and october. WHen it comes to outcomes based on goals, those with a higher percentage of success seem to be the ones that had a goal of less than 1k. The higher percentage that failed were those that asked for 50k or more. They seemed to go either way at only the 15k to 19999 mark. This data set cannot tell us a few things, such as econimic state at the the time the plays were released, which would affect funding. It also cannot tell us things such as audience feedback about the plays, which reveals why plays would do so poorly in the first place, would need an overall audience approval rating or a star rating to include in data set. We could create a pie chart from all the subcategories or parent categories to show which category had the most success overall from our data.  
